This game isn't great right now.
I don't even know what this is.
It's just not great.
It's not great because yes, Arnold can
move left and right, that is true.
That's the entirety of our game right now.
That's it.
That's all that's happening.
So you can see why that leaves
something to be desired.
I'm gonna put on Arnold at -100.
And let's say, I'm gonna drop
back to Wes's basketball court.
And yeah,
looks like that'll be where he starts.
In most games, you interact with
something at some point, right?
Perhaps the floor is lava, perhaps
there are ghosts chasing you, right?
Perhaps you're hitting a ball back and
forth,
perhaps you're running
after some kind of prize.
Perhaps you're just trying to make it
through a maze and there are walls.
There's usually something else in the game
rather than you just wandering around
in the void by yourself only on a left and
right direction.
And that's where we add additional sprites
and we can have a whole bunch of ways that
they know about roughly where,
things about each other.
So let's go ahead and
let's add a second sprite.
Do we have any choices here?
>> Apple.
>> Something I can talk to like
think a bat or a monkey, bat, ghost.
>> Cheesy puffs.
>> You wanna talk to a bowl
of cheesy puffs, okay,
we'll talk to bowl of cheesy puffs.
>> Yes, [LAUGH].
>> I don't know how this is gonna go,
but here we are.
Let's toss an apple in there as well,
for good measure, cuz.
>> Apple's right there.
>> All right, sweet.
So we've got that in place.
And we can go ahead now and say,
Arnold can see, roughly in the game loop,
we'll say if, And
this is where the sensing is.
If touching, you can see if it's touching
a certain color that could be useful.
It's like if it's looking for something
purple, you can say touching color.
You could also say if it's
touching another sprite,
which is kind of what
we want in this case.
So if it's touching,
either the mouse pointer or sprite.
We'll do, I got an idea.
So if touching the cheesy puffs,
Arnold's going to say,
Yum for two seconds.
So now the game loop is gonna kind of go
through, and it's going to say, okay,
if we're touching the cheesy puffs,
say yum.
Otherwise, we've got
the controls in place.
Now I've got some logic to,
I won't use the word game.
Let's call it an experience, right?
We've got some logic for
our experience right now.
So we can go ahead and we'll move him.
Yum.
Let's say for two seconds he walks away.
So we have that in place.
And then we can say if we want to program
a different sprite, let's say the apple,
we could say, all right,
when the green flag is clicked,
we'll give it a game loop.
For most things that we're doing outside
of making a cool little art thing or
a story,
we're probably gonna have a game loop.
We'll say forever.
And for the apple, we'll say if
it's touching the mouse pointer,
Say, Actually, let's do an if
else this time, just for funsies.
Drag that, get rid of that.
We'll go ahead and we'll say if else.
If we're touching the mouse pointer,
we will go ahead and say,
Hello, I am an apple.
Typically a good thing for
an apple to say, right?
Otherwise, if the mouse pointer
is not touching it, I am lonely.
Right, and so as you can see, the code
that controls Arnold is in Arnold,
which we called sprite1.
Let's call him Arnold instead.
He deserves to have a name.
There's no code in the cheesy puffs.
The cheesy puffs only exist for
Arnold to know about them.
All right, and then the apple has
its own code that also starts and
executes whenever.
Now if we wanted the apple to be there,
even if somebody drags it,
we could do some setup code.
But it's got its own code that runs
independently, but both kick off when
the green flag is pressed, so now you
can see the apple says I am lonely.
I'm an apple.
I am lonely.
I'm lonely.
I'm an apple.
It's either an apple or it's lonely,
never both simultaneously.
And then as Arnold gets close, he says
yum when it gets to the cheesy puffs and
then runs away he is no longer satisfied,
right?
So we've got this idea of interaction.
We've got this idea of separating
the different pieces of code,
so on and so forth, right?
And so we're getting some of
the initial pieces for a game.
So I'm thinking we should
probably make one, right?
It's a good time to make a game.